81.What do you mean by protocol stack ?
Ans: The list of protocols used by certain system ,one protocol per layer is called protocol stack.

82.What do you mean by peer ?
Ans: Entities comprising the corresponding layers on different machines are called peers.It may be
• hardware device.
• processes
• human being
peers communicate by using protocol.

83.What do you mean by broadcasting ?
Ans: Broadcast system allow addressing a packet to all destination by using a special code in address field.when packet is transmitted it is received and processed by every machine on the network.

84.What are the advantages of broadcast network.
Ans:
• a single communication channel is shared by all computers.
• packets are transmitted and received by all the computer.
• address field is attached to whom it is intended.
• multicasting is used in network.

85.What do you mean by point to point network?
Ans: Point to point network consist of many connections between individual pair of machines.large networks are point to point.Routing algorithm plays an important in point to point network.It uses stored ad forword technique.It is a packet switching network.

86.What are the design issue of layers ?
Ans: The design issue of layer are
• Addressing technique.ie source and destination address
• Types of communication
• Error control
• Order of message.
• Speed matching
• Multiplexing and demultiplexing.

87.What are the protocols in application layer ?
Ans: The protocols defined in application layer are
• TELNET
• FTP
• SMTP
• DNS

88.What are the protocols in transport layer ?
Ans: The protocols defined in transport layer are
• TCP
• UDP

89.Define TCP ?
Ans: It is connection oriented protocol.It consist byte streams oeiginating on one machine to be delivered without error on any other machine in the network.while transmitting it fragments the stream to discrete messages and passes to interner layer.At the destination it reassembles the messages into output stream.

90.Define UDP ?
Ans: It is unreliable connectionless protocol.It is used for one-shot,client-server type,requesr-reply queries and applications in which prompt delivery is required than accuracy.


1.What do you mean by data communication?
Ans: It is the exchange of data between two devices via some form of transmission medium such as wire cable. The communicating system must be part of a communication system made up of a combination of hardware and software.The effectiveness of a data communication system depends on three fundamental characteristics: delivery, accuracy and timeliness.

2.What is simplex?
Ans: It is the mode of communication between two devices in which flow of data is unidirectional. i.e. one can transmit and other can receive.
E.g. keyboard and monitor.

3.What is half-duplex?
Ans: It is the mode of communication between two devices in which flow of data is bi-directional but not at the same time. ie each station can transmit and receive but not at the same time.
E.g walkie-talkies are half-duplex system.

4.What is full duplex?
Ans: It is the mode of communication between two devices in which flow of data is bi-directional and it occurs simultaneously. Here signals going in either direction share the capacity of the link.
E.g. telephone

5.What is a network?
Ans: It is a set of devices connected by communication links. A node can be a computer or any other device capable of sending and/or receiving data generated by other nodes on the network.

6.What is distributed processing?
Ans: It is a strategy in which services provided by the network reside at multiple sites.

7.What is point to point connection?
Ans:It provides a dedicated link between two devices. The entire capacity of the link is reserved for transmission between the two devices
e.g. when we change the TV channels by remote control we establish a point to point connection between remote control and TV control system.

8.What is multipoint connection?
Ans: In multipoint connection more than two specific devices share a single link.
Here the capacity of the channel is shared either separately or temporally.

9.What is a topology?
Ans: Topology of a network is defined as the geometric representation of the relationship of all the links and linking devices (node) to one another.Four basic topologies are star, bus, ring and mesh.
Star – Here each device has a dedicated point to point link only to a central controller called hub.
Bus -It is multipoint. One long cable acts as a backbone to link all the devices in the network.
Ring -Here each device has a dedicated point to point connection only with the two devices on either side of it.
Mesh -Here every device has a dedicated point to point link to every other device.

10.Define LAN, MAN and WAN.
Ans: LAN- A local area network (LAN) is a privately owned and links the devices in a single office, building or campus.
It allows resources to be shared between personal computers and work stations.
MAN- A metropolitan-area network (MAN) spreads over an entire city.
It may be wholly owned and operated by a private company, eg local telephone company.
WAN – A wide area network (WAN) provides long distance transmission of data, voice, image and video information over large geographic areas that comprise a country, a continent or even whole world.








71.What do you mean by non persistent CSMA(carrier sense multiple access) ?
Ans: Here if no one else is sending the station begins doing so itself.However if the channel is already in use,the station does’t continuously sense it rather it waits for a random period of time and then repeats.It leads better channel utilization but longer delay.

72.What do you mean by p persistent CSMA(carrier sense multiple access) ?
Ans: It applies to slotted channels.when a station becomes ready to send,it senses the channel.If it is idle it transmits with a probability P,with a probability Q=P-1
It defers until the next slot.If that slot is also idle,it either transmits or defers again with probability P and Q.The process is repeated until either the frame has been transmitted or another station begins transmitting.

73.What is FDDI?
Ans: It is high performance fiber optic token ring LAN running at 100Mbps over distance up 1000 stations.FDDI access is limited by time.A FDDI cabling consist of two fiber rings.
i)one transmitting clockwise
ii)one transmitting counterclockwise

74.What is Firewalls?
Ans: It is an electronic downbridge which is used to enhance the security of a network. It’s configuration has two components.
i)Two routers
ii)Application gateway
the packets traveling through the LAN are inspected here and packets meeting certain criteria are forwarded and others are dropped.

75.What is Repeaters ?
Ans: A receiver receives a signal before it becomes too weak or corrupted,regenerates the original bit pattern,and puts the refreshed copy back onto the link.It operates on phycal layer of OSI model.

76.What is Bridges?
Ans: They divide large network into smaller components.They can relay frames between two originally separated LANs.They provide security through partitioning traffic.They operate on phycal and data link layer of OSI model.

77.What is Routers ?
Ans: Router relay packets among multiple interconnected networks.They receive packet from one connected network and pass it to another network.They have access to network layer addresses and certain software that enables them to determine which path is best for transmission among several paths.They operate on phycal,data link and network layer of OSI model.

78.What is Gateway ?
Ans: It is a protocol converter.A gateway can accept a packet formatted for one protocol and convert it to a packet formatted for another protocol.It operates on all the seven layers of OSI model.

79.What do you mean by Data Terminal Equipment(DTE) ?
Ans: It is any device that is source of or destination for binary digital data.At phycal layer it can be a terminal computer. They generate or consume information.

80.What do you mean by Data Terminating Equipment (DCE) ?
Ans: Data circuit terminating equipment includes any functional unit that transmit or receives data in the form of an analog or digital signal through a network.DTE generates digital data and passes them to a DCE ,the DCE converts the data to a form acceptable to the transmission media and sends the converted signal to another DCE on the network.





91.Define IP ?
Ans: Internetwork protocol (IP) is the transmission mechanism used by TCP/IP protocol.It is an unreliable and connectionless datagram protocol.It provides no error checking and tracking.

92.What do you mean by client server model ?
Ans: In client server model ,the client runs a program to request a service and the server runs a program to provide the service.These two programs communicate with each other. One server program can provide services to many client programs.

93.What are the information that a computer attached to a TCP/IP internet must possesses ?
Ans: Each computer attached to TCP/IP must possesses the following information
• Its IP addesss
• Its subnet mask
• The IP addesss of the router.
• The Ip address of the name server.

94.What is domain name system(DNS)?
Ans: Domain Name System (DNS )is a client server application that identifies each host on the internet with a unique user friendly name.

95.What is TELNET ?
Ans: TELNET is a client –server application that allows a user to log on to a remote machine,giving the user access to the remote system. TELNET is an abbreviation of terminal Network.

96.What do you mean by local login and remote login ?
Ans: When a user logs into a local time-sharing system ,it is called local login. When a user wants to access an application program or utility located on a remote machine,he or she performs remote login.

97.What is Network Virtual Terminal ?
Ans: A universal interface provided by TELNET is called Network Virtual Terminal(NVT) character set.Via this interface TELNET translates characters (data or command) that come from local terminal into NVT form and delivers them to the network.

98.What do you mean by Simple Mail Transfer Protocol ?
Ans: The TCP/IP protocol that supports electronic mail on the internet is called Simple Mail Transfer Protocol.SMTP provides for mail exchange between users on the same or different computer and supports Sending a single message to one or more recipient Sending message that include text, voice,video,or graphics.Sending message to users on network outside the internet.

99.What is Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP) ?
Ans: It is the main protocol used to access data on the World Wide Web .the protol transfers data in the form of plain text,hypertext,audio,video,and so on. It is so called because its efficiency allows its use in a hypertext environment where there are rapid jumps from one document to another.

100.What is URL ?
Ans: It is a standard for specifying any kind of information on the World Wide Web.

101. What is World Wide Web ?
Ans: World Wide Web is a repository of information spread all over the world and linked together.It is a unique combination of flexibility,portability,and user-friendly features .The World Wide Web today is a distributed client-server service,in which a client using a browser can access a service using a server.The service provided is distributed over many locations called web sites.

102.What is HTML ?
Ans: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) is a language for creating static web pages
